All right now let's get to the fun part of this project which is painting the blade.
So before we do that let's select all of our layers that make up the guard of our sort.
And let's put those into a folder.
And now it's come down to our swerd layer and we'll add a new layer above that and create a clipping
mask out of it.
Now we can begin painting.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to select this blue color here and then we want to find
a little bit more of a saturated version of that and a little tiny bit darker.
So there should be good.
And then we're going to OK then we're going to go ahead and start brushing that in.
At 20 percent opacity or going to brush down to the bottom and slowly get less and less we'll just continue
to do that over and over again.
But we get it looking the way we want.
Next I'm going to go ahead and re select my base color and I'm going to make it a little bit more saturated.
And this are going to make a little bit more lighter so about there should be good.
I'm going to go ahead and paint some of that in.
So right here in the middle of my sword
great now you can hardly see any difference but there is difference there there's more texture and there's
more blues in there.
So it makes a lot more interesting to the eye and your subconscious picks it up.
Next we're going to go ahead and start painting with more of an aqua color.
Someone come into my AACo blues somewhere around there should be good.
And I'm going to make this really light.
So somewhere in there and then we can go ahead and start painting.
So I'm going to paint this top area like so and I'm not actually going to bring my brush capacity down
to 10 percent because I want it to be even lighter and I can go ahead and start painting this in
and then I'm going to grab a little bit even more of an aqua someone to come down into my Aquas make
this a little bit more saturated.
I'm going to paint just a little bit more aqua and they're just make this look more interesting
perfect next.
Let's go ahead and grab some solid white and we're going to paint down this edge of our sword just like
so now if you're having a hard time painting that straight line you can go ahead and click and then
hold down shift and then come down to here and then you're just going to need to blend this area in
a little bit more at the bottom.
But we're just going to go ahead and paint in this half of our sort.
White.
And so starting at the top area it's going to be a solid solid white.
And as it gets lower on the sword it's going to start blending in with the blue.
So I can bring my brush capacity back up to 20 percent.
Now I can start blending this in actually I'm going to bring it back down to 10 percent so I can blend
it better down here.
And then the further up we go we can keep turning up the brush capacities.
Now you have at 40 percent and I'm just going to start filling stuff at.
Now we can go ahead and slip this mid color start painting with that.
And I'm also painting with this color 40 percent opacity and that helps blend it in and select the next
one and the next color.
And then select this color here and blend that and great Next I'm going to go ahead and grab this more
aqua of blue.
I'm going to go ahead and start painting that down here and I might even just lighten that just the
tiniest bit will come up to about there.
And I'll start painting with that down here.
I'm going to put my brush rapacity back to 10 percent and then we want to start blending that in so
that we can select our base color.
They're blending that in down here blending the all the way up into the white
and then we might grab our white again and start blending that white into that blue
must continue to do this all the way down till we get it blended correctly I think that's pretty good.
MCGRATH This way up here.
Go ahead and paint this edgin a little bit better.
And then I got a little bit of white over this edge.
We don't want that so many gladdens like my blue.
Go ahead and paint over that few times like so great.
All right so now we have the base for our sored reflection.
Next I'm going to add a little bit more highlight onto this side.
So when I select my right aqua color.
I'm just going to paint some of that in so I'm painting it almost right into the middle and I'm kind
of leaving out these edges so they're a little bit darker.
And then we can grab this Durka blue color.
You paint a little bit on top of that.
Just to give it a little bit more texture.
Cool.
Next to what we want to do is we're going to grab our weight again and then bring our brush opacity
up to 50 percent going to bring our size down.
Now I'm going to go ahead and paint this metal line.
It's like so much going to bring my brush opacity down to 30 percent
I'm going to paint the all the way down just like so.
And then right here I'm going add sort of a little divot in our sword blade.
So paint it like so and then we're going to come back in here and add a little bit of shadow and there
continue continue coming all the way down to the bottom.
Now my line got a little bit off it's not centered right now but that's OK.
You can work a little bit harder to make sure your line stay centered.
But for now I'm just going to leave it like that.
And we just want to paint it all the way down the middle and we don't want it to just be one hard line.
You wanted to have a little bit of a wispy brush look and we want it to blend a little bit into our
blues.
So it's not just a hard hard line paint in this highlight here.
And then we're going to paint in the edges of our sword so we can go and zoom out so you can see better.
I'm going to paint in this edge of our sort with white all the way up till we get to about there and
then we'll just continue to do this back and forth layering it until we get it to a solid white.
And you can also add a few lines coming in like so just to make it look more interesting.
Little scratches and stuff.
Let's do the same thing.
On the other side we'll just begin to paint that in.
And as it gets into this white area we don't have to follow it all the way up
awesome next.
Let's go ahead and add in a few more scratches onto our swards so I might add one down here.
Might make that a little bit lighter.
And then I might also add one right here going across this.
And then I might add one or shear and again they don't have to be super prominent.
They can be pretty light.
Next we're going to go ahead and select our darkest blue color.
Someone to grab this color right here and then I'm going to start painting in on these scratches and
divots.
So I'll zoom in there and I'm going to bring my brush opacity up to 50 percent and I can start painting
that.
And then we can paint one end or right here.
So we're going to put it on the top side since the light is going to be coming from the top.
So we want the highlight to be on the bottom of our scratches.
The show this guy
and we can paint the shadow up here on this guy.
Also next we're going to grab an even darker color something to grab my blue Darkon that and then I'm
going to go ahead and start painting in darker shadows.
Just like so you can add a little bit in there also.
We can add definitely some in here because the blue used is almost the same exact blue as what's already
down here.
And then we'll come up to here paint a little bit into their perfect.
Next we're going to add a few little divots in the edges of our sword.
So I'm going to add one right here and up here.
So let's zoom in there and using our darker blue color.
We'll go ahead and paint that in.
So I'm just going to paint in a dark spot like so and you can bring your brush rapacity up to 100 percent
to do this.
So there's one and the other one is going to be up here and I'm going to make this a little bit more
saturated.
Just make a little bit more intense next to this White.
We go ahead and paint one right there.
Now it kind of has a curve to it and I don't want that someone like my white.
Go ahead and kind of paint that curve out.
Nick you had slept this blue again.
Can you get back in there and get rid of some of that curved grape.
I like something like that.
Perfect.
Now let's come back over to this divot and we're going to go ahead and paint in that bottom highlight
right there.
And we can also add a little bit of highlight on top so you might see how that looks awesome.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and change your background color to gray so we can have and see what this looks like
with a neutral color awesome.
Pretty good.
So he had a really kind of transforms the way the sword looks because really when you're on a background
in a game it's not really going to probably be white it's probably going to have colors and different
values.
And so by adding a neutral color like a middle gray that really shows you what your piece of artwork
looks like on a neutral background.
Now if you wanted to take it a step further let's say that this sword is given to your player while
they're playing the game.
So they stumble upon it a whole screen comes up and it fills the screen and says you get this sword.
And it shows the sword.
Maybe you want it to look more dramatic.
And so what you can do is we can go ahead and select all these layers make a copy of them that we're
going to merge those layers together and then we can take all these other layers and put them into a
folder so we have those back up then we can go ahead and turn that folder off and coming back up to
our flattened layer.
We can go ahead and come to effects and do afterglow.
And you can add a really cool outer glow to that.
So let's select a color.
This orange looks pretty nice.
Might try a different version of it or we might even try Yellow.
I think orange looks pretty good.
OK.
And then we can bring the opacity up.
See how that looks.
A little bit too much so maybe it out there and we can change the size.
We can do whatever we want.
And so that just makes it look a lot more interesting.
And a lot more dramatic.
Once you have that set the way you want you can go ahead and hit OK.
And now you are Assa is complete.
I hope you guys enjoyed making this sword.
I did.
Now your assignment is to create this sword and you can change it up however you want.
You can change the colors and keep the same shape or you can completely change the shape.
If you really feel confident in yourself you can go ahead and create a sword made out of completely
different materials such as wood or GEMS whatever you want.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing your art work in the Q&A section
of the course.